Create a guide on how to connect an app to a database hosted on the cloud (#2341)
gradio-app/gradio: guides/5)other_tutorials/connecting_to_a_database.md

<script type="module" src="https://gradio.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/3.1.0/gradio.js"></script>

# Connecting to a Database

Related spaces: https://huggingface.co/spaces/freddyaboulton/chicago-bike-share-dashboard

## Introduction

This guide explains how you can use Gradio to connect your app to a database. We will be
connecting to a PostgreSQL database hosted on AWS but gradio is completely agnostic to the type of
database you are connecting to and where it's hosted. So as long as you can write python code to connect
to your data, you can display it in a web UI with gradio 💪

## Overview 
    
We will be analyzing bike share data from Chicago. The data is hosted on kaggle [here](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/evangower/cyclistic-bike-share?select=202203-divvy-tripdata.csv).
Our goal is to create a dashboard that will enable our business stakeholders to answer the following questions:

1. Are electric bikes more popular than regular bikes?
2. What are the top 5 most popular departure bike stations?

> 

Author: Great idea!

## Step 1 - Creating your database

We will be storing our data on a PostgreSQL hosted on Amazon's RDS service. Create an AWS account if you don't already have one
and create a PostgreSQL database on the free tier. 

> **Important**: If you plan to host this demo on HuggingFace spaces, make sure database is on port **8080**. Spaces will

Reviewer: Good catch!

We will be using the `psycopg2` postgreSQL driver for python.
This is not a hard requirement, so you can use your preferred driver, like SQLAlchemy.

The first step is to create a connection to the database. With `psycopg2` you can do so like this:

```python
connection = psycopg2.connect(user=os.environ["DB_USER"],
                              password=os.environ["DB_PASSWORD"],
                              host=os.environ["DB_HOST"],
                              port="8080",
                              database="bikeshare")
```

We will be passing the database username, password, and host as environment variables.
This will make our app more secure by avoiding storing sensitive information as plain text in our application files.

If you were to run our script locally, you could pass in your credentials as environment variables like so

```bash
DB_USER='username' DB_PASSWORD='password' DB_HOST='host' python app.py
```

## Step 2.b - Write your ETL code
We will be querying our database for the total count of rides split by the type of bicycle (electric, standard, or docked).
We will also query for the total count of rides that depart from each station and take the top 5. 

> We will then take the result of our queries and visualize them in with matplotlib.

Reviewer: I think `plotly` plots are much nicer and more interactive than `matplotlib` plots, and just generally make for a nicer dashboard experience. What do you think?

Author: Let me keep matplotlib plot for now. I tried switching over to plotly and I can't get the output I want. Can't tell if it's a bug or me 😂

    """
    )
    rides = cursor.fetchall()
    cursor.close()
    fig_m, ax = plt.subplots()
    ax.bar(x=[s[1] for s in rides], height=[s[0] for s in rides])
    ax.set_title("Number of rides by bycycle type")
    ax.set_ylabel("Number of Rides")
    ax.set_xlabel("Bicycle Type")
    return fig_m

def get_most_popular_stations():
    cursor = connection.cursor()
    cursor.execute(
        """
    SELECT COUNT(ride_id) as n, MAX(start_station_name)
    FROM RIDES
    WHERE start_station_name is NOT NULL
    GROUP BY start_station_id
    ORDER BY n DESC
    LIMIT 5
    """
    )
    stations = cursor.fetchall()
    fig_m, ax = plt.subplots()
    ax.bar(x=[s[1] for s in stations], height=[s[0] for s in stations])
    ax.set_title("Most popular stations")
    ax.set_ylabel("Number of Rides")
    ax.set_xlabel("Station Name")
    ax.set_xticklabels(
        [s[1] for s in stations], rotation=45, ha="right", rotation_mode="anchor"
    )
    ax.tick_params(axis="x", labelsize=8)
    fig_m.tight_layout()
    return fig_m
```

## Step 2.c - Write your gradio app
We will display or matplotlib plots in two separate `gr.Plot` components. We will fetch the latest data from the

> database each time the application loads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
database each time the web page loads.
```

```python
with gr.Blocks() as demo:
    with gr.Row():
        bike_type = gr.Plot()
        station = gr.Plot()

    demo.load(get_count_ride_type, inputs=None, outputs=bike_type)
    demo.load(get_most_popular_stations, inputs=None, outputs=station)

demo.launch()
```

## Step 3 - Deployment

> We will be deploying our app to HuggingFace spaces. If you wish, you could also run your app locally and get a
> shareable link by passing the `share=True` parameter to `launch`.

Reviewer: Suggest rewording a little bit:
```suggestion
If you run the code above, your app will start running locally. You can even get a temporary shareable link by passing the `share=True` parameter to `launch`.

But what if you want to a permanent deployment solution? Let's deploy our Gradio app to the free HuggingFace Spaces platform.
```
